# Slugify

Slugify is a gem to automatically create ActiveRecord model slugs for use in permalinks based on a title, name, headline, or some other descriptive string field.

## Installation

Add this line to your application's Gemfile:

```ruby
gem 'slugify'
```

And then execute:

    $ bundle

Or install it yourself as:

    $ gem install slugify

## Usage

Include Slugify in the model file you would would like to use it.


```
include Slugify
```

After you've included it, specify which attribute should trigger the slugification:

```
slugify :title
```

This will slugify the content of the source attribute `:title` and store the result in the target attribute `:title_slug`. 

By default, the target attribute is generated by adding `_slug` to the source attribute. It is however possible to explicitly specify the target attribute:

```
slugify :title, as: :some_custom_slug_field
```

This will instead store the slugified source value to `:some_custom_slug_field`.

By default, a slugified value is stored when the target attribute is empty. That means that it by default stores a value when an object is first created, or when the target attribute is cleared and the object then saved:

```
object = SomeClass.create(title: "Ace of Base")   # title_slug = ace-of-base
object.title = "ABBA"
object.save                                       # title_slug still = ace-of-base

object = SomeClass.create(title: "Ace of Base")   # title_slug = ace-of-base
object.title_slug = nil
object.title = "ABBA"
object.save                                       # title_slug = abba
```

This default behavior is chosen in order to maintain permalinks and not break bookmarks. It is possible though to specify if you want the slug to always stay in sync with the source attribute:

```
slugify :title, when: :changed
slugify :title, as: :title_slug, when: :changed
```

That gives this behavior: 

```
object = SomeClass.create(title: "Ace of Base")   # title_slug = ace-of-base
object.title = "ABBA"
object.save                                       # title_slug = abba
```

### Complete example

```ruby
class Event < ApplicationRecord
  include Slugify
  slugify :title, as: :slug, when: :changed
end
```

### Special characters

Slugify will do its best to translate diacritics (accented characters) to its non accented ASCII equivalent:

```
object = SomeClass.create(title: "Mötley Crüe")   # title_slug = motley-crue
```

## Development

After checking out the repo, run `bin/setup` to install dependencies. Then, run `rake spec` to run the tests. You can also run `bin/console` for an interactive prompt that will allow you to experiment.

To install this gem onto your local machine, run `bundle exec rake install`. To release a new version, update the version number in `version.rb`, and then run `bundle exec rake release`, which will create a git tag for the version, push git commits and tags, and push the `.gem` file to [rubygems.org](https://rubygems.org).

## Contributing

Bug reports and pull requests are welcome on GitHub at https://github.com/[USERNAME]/slugify. This project is intended to be a safe, welcoming space for collaboration, and contributors are expected to adhere to the [Contributor Covenant](http://contributor-covenant.org) code of conduct.

## License

The gem is available as open source under the terms of the [MIT License](https://opensource.org/licenses/MIT).

## Code of Conduct

Everyone interacting in the Slugify project’s codebases, issue trackers, chat rooms and mailing lists is expected to follow the [code of conduct](https://github.com/arcticleo/slugify/blob/master/CODE_OF_CONDUCT.md).
